# ICES_WKBB_SeabirdTrackingDatabase

The methods used here are a simplified version of the methods in https://github.com/BirdLifeInternational/petrels-plastics

Methods text

We mapped distributions for species that are not in the SEATRACK database using a method similar to Carneiro et al. (2020) but adapted for poorer data quality and coverage. We searched for seabird distribution data using the Seabird Tracking Database (www.seabirdtracking.org) that were collected using Global Positioning System (GPS) loggers, Platform Terminal Transmitters (PTTs) and Global Location Sensor (GLS) loggers. We requested data from the data owners via the system and received approval for a good sample of data for 6 shearwater species (Calonectris borealis, Calonectris Diomedea, Puffinus lherminieri, Ardenna gravis, Ardenna grisea, Puffinus puffinus) and poorer sample for Stercorarius longicaudus. We omitted equinox periods (March equinox: -21, +7 days; September equinox: -7, +21 days) for GLS data as these periods produce unreliable locations (Hill & Braun, 2001). We pooled all locations for all individuals across all years for month for each species. For each month with five or more locations. we reprojected coordinates onto a Lambert azimuthal equal area projection centred around the geometric mean of the Northeast Atlantic NEAFC region. We used kernel density estimation to compute a 95% utilisation distribution (UD) using the adehabitatHR R package (Calenge, 2006) in 5x5 km cells with a 200 km smoothing factor based on estimated error in for GLS data (Carneiro et al. 2020) Each grid cell contains a value of relative probability of tracked birds occurring in that cell combining information on the proportion of tracked individuals using each cell and the relative time spent in each cell. We reprojected the UD rasters to WGS84 projection and converted them to a point format. To match the fisheries data, we took a mean of all the point falling in each 0.25 x 0.25 degree grid cell in the standard spatial grid for the project and appended the c-square label. All data handling was carried out in R and R scripts are provided on Github.
Calenge, C. The package ‘adehabitat’ for the R software: A tool for the analysis of space and habitat use by animals. Ecol. Modell. 197, 516–519 (2006).
Carneiro, A. P. B. et al. A framework for mapping the distribution of seabirds by integrating tracking, demography and phenology. J. Appl. Ecol. 57, 514–525 (2020).
Hill, R. D. & Braun, M. J. Geolocation by Light Level. In Electronic Tagging and Tracking in Marine Fisheries (eds. Sibert, J. R. & Nielsen, J. L.) 315–330 (Springer, 2001).

**Note that there are mostly GLS data in this dataset, but an improvement to this would be to interpolate and resample GPS and PTT datasets to the sampling frequency for GLS of two locations per day.**
